# GalconController

The Galcon 9001BT is a cheap-ish irrigation controller that communicates with iOS and Android apps using Bluetooth LE.

As you'd expect there's minimal security, the pairing procedure is client side - the pin code is generated by the client app and sent to the controller which then simply displays it. As long as everyone uses the app....

## Script

At present it's just a simple script demonstrating usage.  It takes one argument which is the bluetooth address of the controller.

## Domoticz Plugin

A domoticz plugin which presents the controller as a switch is available. Installation is a per normal domoticz python plugins.

## Message

### ???? (write)

"Logs in" to the device, this message seems to be required before the status returns a sensible value:

Characteristic UUID:    e86802019c4b11e4b5f70002a5d5c51b
Payload: `\x01\x02`

### Controlling the valve (write)

Characteristic UUID:    e86801039c4b11e4b5f70002a5d5c51b

Bit 0 = close valve
Bit 8 = open valve
Bit 9 = use duration in payload
Byte 3 = Duration in hours
Byte 4 = Duration in minutes
Byte 5 = Duration in seconds
Byte 6 = unknown

If bit 9 isn't set then the pre-programmed default duration is used.

A simple open valve message:

    \x00\x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00

A simple close valve message:

    \x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00

### Get Status (read)

Characteristic UUID: e86801029c4b11e4b5f70002a5d5c51b

Response (valve closed): `\x98\x00\x00\x00\x00=\x00`
Response (valve open): `\x99\x01\x00\x04<=\x00`

#### Byte 0 

The bit 0 first byte determines whether the valve is opened or closed. The remaining fields do have meaning.

#### Byte 1

Is set if the valve has been opened manually (rather than by an irrigation program).

#### Bytes 2,3 4

Hours, Minutes, Seconds how long the program has to run

#### Byte 5, 6

Unknown at the present


### Display a pin number on the device (write)

Characteristic UUID: e86804019c4b11e4b5f70002a5d5c51b
Payload: 4 bytes of pin

For the pin `1234` the payload will be `\x01\x02\x03\x04`

As mentioned above, this is a fairly pointless message.

### Other messages

There are other messages to set the irrigation timings, as yet I've not documented them.
